Revamp the `Asynchronous logging` page (#2577)
apache/logging-log4j2: src/site/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/manual/async.adoc

The log message will not change even if the arguments of the logging call are modified later.
+
There are some exceptions to this rule.
link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/message/MapMessage.html[MapMessage]
and
link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/message/StructuredDataMessage.html[StructuredDataMessage]
are mutable by design: fields can be added to these messages after the message object was created.
These messages should not be modified after they are logged with asynchronous loggers or asynchronous appenders.
+
Custom
link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/message/Message.html[Message]
implementations should be designed with asynchronous use in mind, and either take a snapshot of their parameters at construction time, or document their thread-safety characteristics (cf.
link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/message/AsynchronouslyFormattable.html[AsynchronouslyFormattable]).

CPU consumption:::
If your application is running in an environment where CPU resources are scarce, like a VM with a single vCPU, starting another thread is not likely to give better performance.

[id=asynchronous-loggers]

> == Asynchronous loggers

Author: I chose 1.

Log4j 2 makes a number of improvements in the area of asynchronous logging:

* It introduces *asynchronous loggers*, whose aim is to return from the logging call to the application as soon as possible.
+
Asynchronous loggers are based on link:#UnderTheHood[LMAX Disruptor], a lock-free inter-thread communication library, instead of queues, resulting in higher throughput and lower latency.
+
You can choose between:

** <<AllAsync>>, which gives a better performance,
** <<MixedSync-Async>>, which gives more flexibility.

* *Asynchronous appenders* have been enhanced to flush to the OS at the end of a batch, when the queue becomes empty.
+

> This produces the same result as the xref:manual/appenders.adoc#immediateFlush[immediateFlush] attribute of many appenders: it guarantees that the batch of log events is passed to the OS, but does not guarantee that the OS forwards the data to the appropriate physical device.

Author: I moved the note to `appenders.adoc`.

[#installation]
== Installation

In order to use async loggers, you need to add LMAX Disruptor to you application's dependencies, by adding the following dependency to your build tool:

[tabs]
====
Maven::
+
[source,xml,subs="+attributes"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.lmax</groupId>
  <artifactId>disruptor</artifactId>
  <version>{disruptor-version}</version>
  <scope>runtime</scope>
</dependency>
----

Gradle::
+
[source,groovy,subs="+attributes"]
----
runtimeOnly 'com.lmax:disruptor:{disruptor-version}'
----
====

[#AllAsync]
== Making all loggers asynchronous

This is simplest to configure and gives the best performance.

To make all logger asynchronous, you need to set the
xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.contextSelector[log4j2.contextSelector]

> property to one of the asynchronous logger context selectors:

Author: Fixed in a7854e8f786d001e38f28c2121f7428e9ab47af8 by ending the section here.

link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/async/BasicAsyncLoggerContextSelector[org.apache.logging.log4j.core.async.BasicAsyncLoggerContextSelector]::
This will create a single logger context and disruptor for all the classes in the JVM,

link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/async/AsyncLoggerContextSelector[org.apache.logging.log4j.core.async.AsyncLoggerContextSelector]::
This will create a different logger context and disruptor for each classloader in the JVM.

[IMPORTANT]
====
When using an asynchronous logger context you should use only `Root` and `Logger` elements (cf.
xref:manual/configuration.adoc#configuring-loggers[Logger configuration]).

If you use `AsyncRoot` and `AsyncLogger` configuration elements, two asynchronous barriers will be created instead of one, which will impair performance.
====

[[SysPropsAllAsync]]

> === Configuration Properties

Author: At first I thought that the properties bloat the page, but maybe you are right: let's include them.

> === Configuration Properties

Author: Done

In order to use this configuration, you need to keep the
xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.contextSelector[log4j2.contextSelector] at its default value and use one of the
`AsyncRoot` and `AsyncLogger` configuration elements to designate the loggers that you want to be asynchronous.

A configuration that mixes asynchronous loggers might look like:

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
[source,xml]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/mixed-async.xml[lines=1;18..-1]
----

JSON::
+
[source,json]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/mixed-async.json[]
----

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/mixed-async.yaml[lines=17..-1]
----

Java properties::
+
[source,properties]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/mixed-async.properties[lines=17..-1]
----
====

<1> All the appenders referenced by `Root` and `Logger` are called synchronously.
This is especially important for audit logging, since exceptions can be forwarded to the caller.
<2> All the appenders references by `AsyncRoot` and `AsyncLogger` are called asynchronously.
These log statements will cause a smaller latency for the caller.

[[SysPropsMixedSync-Async]]

> === Configuration Properties

Author: Done

== Custom `WaitStrategy`

The system properties mentioned in the section above allow only to choose from among a fixed set of wait strategies.

In order to use a custom wait strategy you need to:

. Use the <<MixedSync-Async,mixed sync/async configuration method>> above,
. Implement the interface
link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/async/AsyncWaitStrategyFactory.html[AsyncWaitStrategyFactory]; the implementation must have a public no-arg constructor,
. Add an xref:plugin-reference.adoc#org-apache-logging-log4j_log4j-core_org-apache-logging-log4j-core-async-AsyncWaitStrategyFactoryConfig[AsyncWaitStrategyFactory Log4j plugin]
to your configuration.

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
[source,xml]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/custom-wait-strategy.xml[lines=1;18..-1]
----

JSON::
+
[source,json]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/custom-wait-strategy.json[]
----

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/custom-wait-strategy.yaml[lines=17..-1]
----

Java properties::
+
[source,properties]
----
include::example$manual/configuration/custom-wait-strategy.properties[lines=17..-1]
----
====

[#Location]
== Location

> Computing the location of a log event is an expensive operation.

Author: Fixed in a7854e8f786d001e38f28c2121f7428e9ab47af8

See also xref:manual/layouts.adoc#location-information[Location information].

[WARNING]
====
Location information is disabled by default for async loggers and async appenders.

In order to enable it for a certain logger, set its
xref:manual/configuration.adoc#logger-attributes-includeLocation[includeLocation] attribute to `true`.
====

[id=exception-handler]
== Exception handler

In order to handle exceptions that occur on the asynchronous thread, you can configure a custom
https://lmax-exchange.github.io/disruptor/javadoc/com.lmax.disruptor/com/lmax/disruptor/ExceptionHandler.html[ExceptionHandler<T>].

The exact type of handler depends on the configuration mode:

Full asynchronous::
+
If all the loggers are asynchronous you need to:
+
* implement an
link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/async/RingBufferLogEvent.html[ExceptionHandler<? super RingBufferLogEvent>]
* set its fully qualified class name as value of the
xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.asyncLoggerExceptionHandler[log4j2.asyncLoggerExceptionHandler]
configuration property.

Mixed synchronous/asynchronous::
+

> If you use a mix of sync and async loggers you need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a mix of synchronous and asynchronous loggers you need to:
```

+
* implement a
link:../javadoc/log4j-core/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/async/AsyncLoggerConfigDisruptor.Log4jEventWrapper.html[ExceptionHandler<? super AsyncLoggerConfigDisruptor.Log4jEventWrapper>]
* set its fully qualified class name as value of the
xref:manual/systemproperties.adoc#log4j2.asyncLoggerConfigExceptionHandler[log4j2.asyncLoggerConfigExceptionHandler]
configuration property.

> [#UnderTheHood]

Reviewer: I'd just remove this section. We already do Disruptor marketing at the top and several other places where users need to plug in Disruptor components.

Author: Fixed in 13aea96008fe4d6757842f8a090b39f69c827384
